
## Description
This project aims at predicting the musical genre of a song, based on some pre-computed features. The song genres to be classified are Electronic, Experimental, Folk, Hip-Hop, Instrumental, International, Pop or Rock. The dataset consists of p = 518 pre-computed features extracted from 8000 audio tracks. Each song i is represented by an input vector $x_i = (x_{i1}, . . . , x_{ip})$ where $x_{ij} \in \mathbb{R}$ represents the j’th feature of song i. The features are real-valued and correspond to summary statistics (mean, standard deviation, skewness, kurtosis, median, minimum and maximum) of time series of various music features, such as the chromagram or the Mel-frequency cepstrum. Each song may be of eight different classes: Electronic, Experimental, Folk, Hip-Hop, Instrumental, International, Pop or Rock. The objective is to (i) construct a classifier which, based on the features of a song, predicts its genre, and to (ii) estimate its generalisation error under the 0–1 loss.
The dataset is split into a training set of 6000 audio tracks, and a test set of 2000 audio tracks. For the training observations, we have access to both the inputs (X train) and outputs (y train). For the test set, we have only access to the inputs (X test), and the objective is to predict their genre, and to estimates its generalisation error under the 0–1 loss. 

## Methods
Various baseline classification techniques are considered, including Logistic Regression on Principle Components, Random Forests, Neural Networks and Support Vector Machines for this purpose. Ensemble stacking of several base models is studied. As an extension, we propose to apply bootstrapping to SVM which turns out to improve the testing accuracy. 
